GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software
and other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to
take away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, our
General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and
change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software
for all its users. We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General
Public License for most of our software; it applies also to any other
work released this way by its authors. You can use it for your programs,
too. When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.

Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the
freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if
you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you want it,
that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free
programs, and that you know that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these
rights or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you
make modifications and distribute them, responsibilities designed to
protect your freedoms.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or
for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients all the freedoms that you
had. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that
there is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as such,
so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to authors of
previous versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users' access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so. This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting
users' freedom to change the software. Thus, we have chosen to protect
this software's users' and authors' legal rights to change the GPL'd
versions of programs to the extent that "product piracy" laws are
interpreted to restrict that right. "Political piracy" is when you
restrict users' freedom to share or change the software.

The GNU General Public License is intended to apply to all free software
projects. We have developed this to be a strong copyleft license: it says
that modified versions of the software must be free software. The
"permissive" software licenses, by contrast, do not insist on that.

We use the Lesser General Public License for some specially designed
libraries; it is intended to permit linking proprietary applications with
those libraries. But we use the ordinary General Public License for most
all other software.

The Preamble above is not part of this License; to read these terms
through, you need to read the sections below.


                            TERMS AND CONDITIONS

0. Definitions.

"This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

"Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

"The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License. Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in
a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy. The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on
the Program.

To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement
under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer or
modifying a private copy. Propagation includes copying, redistribution
(with or without modification), making available to the public, and in
some countries other activities as well.

To "convey" a work means any type of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a
computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that
displays (1) a copyright notice, and (2) a reference that tells the user
where to find a copy of this License. If the interface presents a list of
user commands or options, such as a menu, it must include an item in the
list that displays the Program's Appropriate Legal Notices.

1. Source Code.

The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a
work.

A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that is
widely used among developers working in that language.

The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than
the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging
a major component, but which is not itself a major component, and (b)
serves only to enable use of the work with that major component, or to
implement a Standard Interface for that major component. An "Executable
Work" is any covered work in object code form.

The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work)
run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control
those activities. However, it does not include the work's System
Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free programs
which are used unmodified in performing those activities but which are not
part of the work. For example, Corresponding Source includes interface
definition files associated with source files, and the source code for
shared libraries and dynamically linked subprograms that the work is
specified to require, such as by intimate data communication or control
flow between those subprograms and other parts of the work.

The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can
regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

The Corresponding Source for a work in object code form must include any
non-Standard Interface source files that are included in the work or that
work with the work to mediate user interaction with a Modified Version
of the work; an example is interface definition files for a graphical
user interface program drawn with the help of a GUI builder. See section
2 for more information.

2. Basic Permissions.

All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met. This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program. The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, by its
nature, constitutes a covered work. This License acknowledges your
rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by copyright law.

You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey,
without condition. You may convey covered works to others for the sole
purpose of having them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide
you with facilities for running those works, provided that you comply
with the terms of this License in conveying all material for which you
do not control copyright. Those thusly made or commissioned works are
subject to this License. The contributing developers of works made or
commissioned by you retain all copyright interest in them.

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each licensee is
granted a worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to reproduce,
prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform,
sublicense, and distribute the Program and its Derivative Works in source
and object form.

3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological
measure under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under Article 11
of the WIPO copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws
prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such measures.

When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention
is effected by exercising rights conveyed under this License, and you
disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the work as a
means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to restrict access to or use of the work.

4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices stating that this License and any
non-permissive terms added to those of this License apply to the work;
keep the full text of this License in all copies; and give all recipients
    a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and
you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
produce it from the Program, in source form under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it,
    and giving a relevant date.

    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released
    under this License and any conditions added under section 7.
    This requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact
    all notices".

    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
    anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore
    apply, along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the
    whole of the work, and all its parts, regardless of how they are
    packaged. This License gives no permission to license the work in any
    other way, but it does not invalidate such permission if you have
    separately received it.

    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
    "Appropriate Legal Notices"; however, if the Program has interactive
    interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work
    need not make them do so.

A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which
are not combined with it such that they form a larger program, in or on
a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate".
